feat(blog): add form-js@1.6.0 blog post (#184)
bpmn-io/bpmn.io: src/blog/2023/011-form-js-1.6.md

---

> title: Unveiling Dynamic Forms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Dynamic Lists and Tables land in form-js
```

> description: "Explore what's new in form-js@1.6.0: Unveil the power of dynamic lists and an innovative table component, designed to enhance the functionality and versatility of your forms."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Explore what's new in forms: A powerful dynamic list and a new table component ship with form-js@1.6.0."
```

> preview_image: http://bpmn.io/assets/attachments/blog/2023/011-dynamic-table.png

Reviewer: :star:

layout: blogpost.hbs

> slug: 2023-form-js-1-6-0-unveiling-dynamic-forms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: 2023-form-js-1-6-0-dynamic-list-table
```

author:
  - Vinicius Goulart <https://github.com/vsgoulart>
  - Valentin Serra <https://github.com/skaiir>
published: 2023-12-18 12:00

releases:
  - "form-js@1.6.0"
---

<p class="introduction">

>   We're thrilled to announce the [form-js@1.6.0 release](https://github.com/bpmn-io/form-js), a significant leap in form development. This version introduces dynamic lists and a new table component, elevating the capabilities of complex form creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We're thrilled to announce the [form-js@1.6.0 release](https://github.com/bpmn-io/form-js). It ships with dynamic lists and a new table component and unlocks new capabilities in complex form use-cases.
```

</p>

<!-- continue -->

Explore these new features [on our demo](https://demo.bpmn.io/form) or using the [Camunda form playground](https://github.com/camunda/form-playground).

## Dynamic Lists

Without manual work, dynamic lists enable the effortless generation of repetitive sets of form components, such as data tables or ordered lists.

<div class="figure full-size">
  <img src="{{ assets }}/attachments/blog/2023/011-dynamic-list.png">

  <p class="caption">

>     Dynamic lists offer flexibility in modeling repetitive lists of form components.

Reviewer: Consider: Link this image to your demo (camunda forms).

Better: Get the bpmn.io form demo to feature the form playground, and link that.

  </p>
</div>

## Table Component

The new table component in `form-js@1.6.0` brings an improved approach to data organization within forms, offering a structured and user-friendly interface. This addition simplifies the management and entry of complex data, simplifying overall form usability.

<div class="figure full-size">
  <img src="{{ assets }}/attachments/blog/2023/011-table-component.png">

  <p class="caption">
    Organize tabular data with the new table component, giving your users all the information they need to fill their forms in a space efficient way.
  </p>
</div>

> 

Reviewer: Feature how the data source can be static (just input data) or computed from existing form data, i.e. a prior dynamic list.

Reviewer: Consider featuring how (also more complex) nested components can be stacked inside a dynamic list.

## Wrapping Up

Read through the [full changelog](https://github.com/bpmn-io/form-js/blob/master/packages/form-js/CHANGELOG.md#160) to learn about all issues that we addressed with `form-js@0.16.0`.

Did we miss anything? Did you spot a bug, or would you like to suggest an improvement? Reach out to us via [our forums](https://forum.bpmn.io/), [follow us on Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@bpmn_io), or file an issue you found in [the form-js issue tracker](https://github.com/bpmn-io/form-js/issues).

Get the latest Forms modeling toolkit pre-packaged or as source code via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@bpmn-io/form-js) or [unpkg](https://unpkg.com/@bpmn-io/form-js).

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
